.TH orphaner 8 "" "April 2004" ""
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Peter Palfrader

.SH NAME
.LP
orphaner \- frontend for deborphan

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBorphaner\fP [\fB\-\-help\fP|\fB\-\-purge\fP] [\,\fIdeborphan options\fP\/]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBorphaner\fR is a neat frontend for \fBdeborphan\fP displaying a list
of orphaned packages with dialog or whiptail. Packages may be
selected for removal with \fBapt\-get\fP which is then called to do the
work. After removal a new list of orphaned packages is gathered
from deborphan. The program ends when either `Cancel' is pressed
or no package is marked for removal.

After you removed a package, all new orphaned packages are shown at the
top of the list separated by +++++ from the old list.

Orphaner also shows two additional buttons: `Simulate' and `Help'.
`Simulate' does like its name suggest only a simulation of removing and
shows the result that would appear after real removing. So you can see
the packages, which will become orphaned and you can select them and
remove all packages with one \fBapt\-get\fR call.

`Help' shows you the status of the package given by \fBdpkg \-s\fR.
\fBCaution:\fP your selection will be lost.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a short help and exit.

.IP \fB\-\-skip-apt\fR
Do not call \fBapt\-get\fR, but show apt-get command line instead.

.IP \fB\-\-purge\fR
Call \fBapt\-get\fR remove with the \fB\-\-purge\fR option.

.LP
\fBorphaner\fP accepts most, but not all, options that \fBdeborphan\fP accepts.
These options are passed to \fBdeborphan\fP unchanged, and described in
\fBdeborphan\fP's manpage. Options which are not accepted include switches
to manage the keep file, and switches to change the output format. Note
that switches which take an argument need to passed as one argument to
\fBorphaner\fP. For instance to only show packages of priority \fIoptional\fP
and less important, you need to use \fB\-\-priority=optional\fP
(i.e., with the \fB=\fP sign, not with a space).

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBdeborphan\fP(1),
\fBorphaner\fP(8),
\fBapt\-get\fP(8),
\fBeditkeep\fP(8)

